Mahesh Lad
+447493126371• Harrow, UK• mlad.mahesh.lad@gmail.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/mahesh-lad-00331910/
https://github.com/mahesh46
https://mahesh46.github.io/Resume

Summary
Senior iOS Engineer with over a decade of experience delivering robust, scalable, and customer-
focused mobile applications. Proficient in Swift, SwiftUI, UIKit, and MVVM-C architecture with
hands-on knowledge of REST APIs, Core Data, XCTest, and multithreading. Proven track record in
leading teams, implementing CI/CD pipelines, and building financial and health-tech applications.
Passionate about clean code, collaborative development, and continuous innovation.
Proficient in project management, client interaction, and continuous improvement practices.
Committed to delivering exceptional results that exceed client expectations and drive business
success.

Work Experience
Independent iOS Development & Upskilling (June 2025 - Present)
Working on my own personal projects and Generative AI training.
Exploring emerging technologies in food-tech and delivery applications
Available for full-time opportunities in innovative mobile development

Senior Application Developer at AtYourTime.com - Start Up (2Jan2025 - 13 th
May2025)
Architected, developed, tested, and maintained software applications in collaboration with cross-
functional teams to ensure the quality and performance of our software solutions.
Facilitated global operations.
Created iOS and Android restaurant, delivery, and user applications using React Native.

Freelance IOS and Android Developer (2015 - 2017)
Independent iOS Development, including a taxi ride app, an e-commerce app, and a
restaurant menu app using SwiftUI and Jetpack Compose.
Participated in online hackathons and coding competitions, earning recognition for
innovative solutions and exceptional coding practices.
Attended industry conferences and webinars to stay updated with the latest trends and
best practices in mobile app development.
Udemy, Kotlin Multiplatform Masterclass, KMP, KMM - Android, IOS


Senior IOS Developer at Deloitte (09/2019 - 04/2023)
Led the development of iOS applications, delivering high-quality solutions. Use
SOLID coding principles, Design Patterns (Gang of 4), and Test driven development.
Utilized Swift, Core Data, and SDK to create efficient and user-friendly apps.
Collaborated closely with cross-functional teams to ensure seamless client-server
applications.
Conducted automated code and interface testing, resulting in improved app
performance. Conducting code reviews.
Troubleshot real-time issues and implemented effective solutions.
Successfully integrated RESTful APIs, adhering to industry best practices.
Employed AutoLayout, Storyboard, Multithreading, Blocks, GCD, and
NSOperationQueue for efficient app development.
Managed Swift package manager for dependency management.

lients projects;
Wallstreet On-Line, Smart Broker app (code name Zebra). online banking and trading
applications, for stocks and cryptocurrency. Localization - German and English
Added features to existing internal Banking project using SwiftUI
Protecht-Gumshield iOS Bluetooth app for Sports and Wellbeing Analytics Ltd
(https://swa.one/), allows you to transmit impact data via Bluetooth. Applications – football,
rugby, boxing, .etc
As a single iOS developer started the Swift project and created a Working Viable Product. I
implemented the CI/CD system and app certificates.
Virgin Media IOS converged app
As a member of a team of 3 iOS developers, started the Swift project and after 6 months ,
the team grew to 8+ developers for iOS and Android teams.
App for both Mobile and or Media (Broadband) customers to see bills, change billing settings
and load of other features without redirecting to an online portal. Numerous product releases
over 2.5 years. 99.9% bug free.

Senior IOS Developer at Emotive (https://emotiveagency.com) (05/2016 - 03/2018)
Developed tablet and mobile iOS applications for medical case studies, training, and conference
applications.
Employed Swift, Core Data, and SDK for efficient app development.
Implemented clean architecture principles to enhance code maintainability.
Produced and maintained iOS applications using Swift and Combine.
Generated technical design documentation for project reference.
Addressed real-time issues and implemented effective solutions.
Ensured adherence to coding standards and best practices.
Adopted agile software development practices to deliver customer-focused solutions.

IOS Developer at Golden Trident Ltd (01/2015 - 04/2016)
New Start-up technology company, with a plan to build the next-generation
social networking platform.
Contributed to the development of native iOS mobile applications.
Implemented MVVM architecture for improved code maintainability.
Ensured compliance with human interface guidelines and mobile design best
practices.
Leveraged Swift and UIKit to create user-friendly app interfaces.
Collaborated with backend teams to ensure seamless app functionality.
Worked on white labelling and internationalization projects.
Clients projects;
Letsgetout ,https://apps.apple.com/sg/app/lets-get-out/id1018188766

IOS Developer + CTO, ShrPlane, old street, London - Google TechHub, (12/2014 – 02/2015)
Executed full-stack iOS development. The application was selected for Seedcamp on January 10
2015.
Developed MVP prototypes, databases, IIS authentication, and Web APIs using PHP, MySQL,
JavaScript, and Swift.


Mobile App Developer, DPR Consulting (www.dpr.co.uk) (04/2014 – 10/2014)
Served as a mobile technical consultant and developer for iPhone and Android financial mobile
banking applications.
Created white-label applications.
Developed the premium bank mobile banking app that interfaces with their MVC backend, allowin
bank customers to check their balance and conduct payments and transfers.
Integrated a branch-finder feature and push notification functionality.
Valued unit testing and continuous integration testing, leading to the generation of one million from
white-label banking application.

Senior Analyst Programmer, Simply Health (05/2012 – 01/2014)
Functioned as a senior analyst programmer focused on their healthcare system.
Specified, developed, tested, implemented, and maintained programs and systems in a Windows
Cloud / Mobile and SQL Server development environment utilizing Windows Azure, AWS, Visual
Studio 2012, MS SQL Server 2012, .NET Framework 4.5, Xcode Objective-C (iOS), Dreamweave
CS6, PhoneGap, jQuery Mobile, and HTML5.


Education
Bsc of Mathematics (1990)


SKILLS
Swift SwiftUI
Objective-C Kotlin
JavaScript UIKit
Jetpack Compose Combine
MVVM-C TDD
SOLID principles Clean Code
Dependency Injection (Swinject, Resolver) Xcode
Git GitHub Actions
GitLab CI JIRA
CI/CD XCTest
Automated Testing Profiling
GCD NSOperationQueue
Async/Await RESTful APIs
Cloud Messaging Offline Caching
Core Data Realm (basic)
MySQL PostgreSQL
AWS (RDS, EB) Supabase
Render Agile/Scrum
Cross-functional collaboration Mentoring
Technical leadership


Certifications
Kotlin Multiplatform Masterclass
Udemy, 2024)
Microsoft Azure Data
Fundamentals 04/2023
Ultimate Agile Scrum Master
2022 + Certification Training
ARKit Masterclass – Build 11
Augmented Reality Apps (Udemy)

Training
Introduction to Generative AI
Learning Path:
Google cloud skills link:
Introduction to Generative AI
Introduction to Large Language
Models
Introduction to Responsible AI
Generative AI Fundamentals
Responsible AI: Applying AI
Principles with Google Cloud
Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals:
AI Overview
Microsoft skills Link:
Fundamentals of Azure AI services
Fundamentals of machine learning
Fundamental AI Concepts

